add v8.3.0 release notes (#18386)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.3.0.md

    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CHECK_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PARTITIONS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SEQUENCES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_CHECK_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TiDB_INDEXES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.VIEWS

* Support for partition pruning when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function to support partition pruning and improve query performance [#54209](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/54209) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1885-->

    In previous versions, when partition expressions used the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, partition pruning is not supported, resulting in poor query performance. Starting from v8.3.0, partition pruning is supported when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, which improves query performance.

    For more information, see [documentation](/partition-pruning.md#scenario-three).
    

> * The performance of `CREATE TABLE` is improved by 1.4 times, and `CREATE DATABASE` is improved by 2.1 times [#54436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54436) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1863-->
> 
>     TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.
>     
>     Starting from v8.3.0, this variable also optimizes the performance of batch database creation. Compared with v8.2.0, the performance is improved by 2.1 times when submitting database creation DDL statements concurrently through 10 sessions.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).    

Author: ```suggestion
* The performance of `CREATE TABLE` is improved by 1.4 times, `CREATE DATABASE` is improved by 2.1 times, and `ADD COLUMN` is improved by 2 times [#54436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54436) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1863-->

   In v8.3.0, besides `CREATE TABLE`, the performance of general DDLs  in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.
     
    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).    
```

    TiDB 在启动时要对基础统计信息进行加载，在表或者分区数量很多的情况下，这个过程要耗费一定时间，当配置项 [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-从-v657-和-v710-版本开始引入) 为 `ON` 时，初始统计信息加载完成前 TiDB 不会对外提供服务。在这种情况下，用户需要对加载过程进行观测，从而能够预期服务开启时间。自 v8.3.0，TiDB 会在日志中分阶段打印初始统计信息加载的进度，让客户了解运行情况。为了给外部工具提供格式化的结果，TiDB 增加了额外的监控 [API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md)，能够在启动阶段随时获取初始统计信息的加载进度。

### Security

* Enhance PD log redaction [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe]l(https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, PD implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-pd-side).

> * Enhance TiKV log redaction  [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance TiKV log redaction [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->
```

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, TiKV implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.
    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-tikv-side).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) #10301 #48519 @okJiang @asddongmen

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @okJiang @asddongmen **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689-->
```

>     TiCDC v7.6.0 introduced the replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. In v8.3.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA). Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiCDC v7.6.0 introduced the replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.
    
    In v8.3.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.2.0 to the current version (v8.3.0). If you are upgrading from v8.1.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 `ANALYZE TABLE` 语句默认收集的列。将其设置为 `PREDICATE` 表示仅收集 [predicate columns](/statistics.md#收集部分列的统计信息) 的统计信息；将其设置为 `ALL` 表示收集所有列的统计信息。 |
| [`tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 这个变量用于控制 [Cursor Fetch](/develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md#使用-streamingresult-流式获取执行结果) 功能的行为。|

> | [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-从-v830-版本开始引入)       | 新增  | 控制是否启用共享锁升级为排他锁的功能。默认值为 `OFF`，表示不启用共享锁升级为排他锁的功能。  |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
```

| [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope and the variable value persists to the cluster. Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, which means that the optimizer is allowed to push `Projection` down to the TiKV coprocessor. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-从-v50-版本开始引入) |  修改 | 支持将 PD 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`，使用单角形引号 `‹›` 标记出敏感信息，而不是直接隐藏，以便你能够自定义脱敏规则。  |
> | TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-从-v408-版本开始引入)  | 修改 | 支持将 TiKV 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`，使用单角形引号 `‹›` 标记出敏感信息，而不是直接隐藏，以便你能够自定义脱敏规则。   |
> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflashtoml)  | 修改 | 支持将 TiFlash Server 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`，使用单角形引号 `‹›` 标记出敏感信息，而不是直接隐藏，以便你能够自定义脱敏规则。    |
> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflash-learnertoml) | 修改 | 支持将 TiFlash Learner 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`，使用单角形引号 `‹›` 标记出敏感信息，而不是直接隐藏，以便你能够自定义脱敏规则。   |

Author: ```suggestion
| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiFlash Server configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.   |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |
```

|    |   |   |   |

### System tables

* 在系统表 [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) 和 [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) 中新增 `ROWS_AFFECTED` 字段，用于显示当前 DML 语句已经写入的数据行数。[#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->

### Other changes

## Offline package changes

> ## Deprecated features
> 
> * The following features are deprecated starting from v8.3.0:
> 
>     * TiDB 在 v8.0.0 引入了系统变量 [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-从-v800-版本开始引入)，用于控制是否启用优先队列来优化自动收集统计信息任务的排序。在未来版本中，优先队列将成为自动收集统计信息任务的唯一排序方式，系统变量 [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-从-v800-版本开始引入) 将被废弃。
>     * TiDB 在 v7.5.0 引入了系统变量 [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-从-v750-版本开始引入)，用于设置 TiDB 使用异步方式合并分区统计信息，以避免 OOM 问题。在未来版本中，分区统计信息将统一使用异步方式进行合并，系统变量 [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-从-v750-版本开始引入) 将被废弃。
>     * 计划在后续版本重新设计[执行计划绑定的自动演进](/sql-plan-management.md#自动演进绑定-baseline-evolution)，相关的变量和行为会发生变化。

Author: ```suggestion
## Deprecated features **tw@hfxsd**

* The following features are deprecated starting from v8.3.0:

    *  TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in- v800), which controls whether priority queues are enabled to optimize the ordering of tasks that automatically collect statistics. In future releases, the priority queue will be the only way to order tasks for automatically collecting statistics, so this system variable will be deprecated.
    * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) in v7.5.0. You can use it to set TiDB to use asynchronous merging of partition statistics to avoid OOM issues. In future releases, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously, so this system variable will be deprecated.
    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB supports using the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->
    - Optimize MemDB implementation to reduce write transaction latency [#xxx](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/xxx) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->
    - GC（垃圾回收）支持并发 Delete Range（删除区间）以提升处理效率，可以通过 [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-从-v50-版本开始引入) 控制并发线程数 [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    
```

* 分区表支持全局索引 (Global Index)（实验特性） [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->

    之前版本的分区表，因为不支持全局索引有较多的限制，比如唯一键必须包含分区建，如果查询条件不带分区建，查询时会扫描所有分区，导致性能较差。从 v7.6.0 开始，引入了参数 [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-从-v760-版本开始引入) 用于开启全局索引特性，但该功能当时处于开发中，不够完善，不建议开启。
    
    从 v8.3.0 开始，全局索引作为实验特性正式发布了。你在创建不包含全部分区建的唯一键时，TiDB 会隐式的创建全局索引，去除了唯一建必须包含全部分区键的限制，满足灵活的业务需求。同时基于全局索引也提升了不带分区建的索引的查询性能。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/partitioned-table.md#全局索引)。

### DB operations

### Observability

* 展示初始统计信息加载的进度 [#issue号](链接) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@lilin90** <!--1792-->

    TiDB 在启动时要对基础统计信息进行加载，在表或者分区数量很多的情况下，这个过程要耗费一定时间，当配置项 [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-从-v657-和-v710-版本开始引入) 为 `ON` 时，初始统计信息加载完成前 TiDB 不会对外提供服务。在这种情况下，用户需要对加载过程进行观测，从而能够预期服务开启时间。自 v8.3.0，TiDB 会在日志中分阶段打印初始统计信息加载的进度，让客户了解运行情况。为了给外部工具提供格式化的结果，TiDB 增加了额外的监控 [API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md)，能够在启动阶段随时获取初始统计信息的加载进度。

### Security

> * 增强 PD 日志脱敏 [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->
> 
>     TiDB v8.0.0 增强了日志脱敏功能，支持控制是否使用标记符号 `‹ ›` 包裹 TiDB 日志中的用户数据。基于标记后的日志，你可以在展示日志时决定是否对被标记信息进行脱敏处理，从而提升日志脱敏功能的灵活性。在 v8.2.0 中，TiFlash 实现了类似的日志脱敏功能增强。
>     
>     在 v8.3.0 中，PD 实现了类似的日志脱敏功能增强，要使用该功能，可以将 PD 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/log-redaction.md#pd-组件日志脱敏)。

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance PD log redaction [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe]l(https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, PD implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-pd-side).
```

> * 增强 TiKV 日志脱敏 [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->
> 
>     TiDB v8.0.0 增强了日志脱敏功能，支持控制是否使用标记符号 `‹ ›` 包裹 TiDB 日志中的用户数据。基于标记后的日志，你可以在展示日志时决定是否对被标记信息进行脱敏处理，从而提升日志脱敏功能的灵活性。在 v8.2.0 中，TiFlash 实现了类似的日志脱敏功能增强。
>     
>     在 v8.3.0 中，TiKV 实现了类似的日志脱敏功能增强，要使用该功能，可以将 TiKV 配置项 `security.redact-info-log` 的值设置为 `marker`。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/log-redaction.md#tikv-组件日志脱敏)。

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance TiKV log redaction  [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, TiKV implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.
    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-tikv-side).
```

| TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiFlash Server configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.   |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |
|    |   |   |   |

### System tables

> * The [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) system tables add the `SESSION_ALIAS` field to show the number of rows written by the DML statement [#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) system tables add the `SESSION_ALIAS` field to show the number of rows currently affected by the DML statement [#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB supports using the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->
    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    
+ TiKV

+ PD

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>     
>         - Support checking whether a full backup exists before starting point-in-time recovery (PITR) for the first time. If the full backup is not found, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54418) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1915-->
>         - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before restoring snapshot backups. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
>         - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads SST files. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
        - Support checking whether a full backup exists before starting point-in-time recovery (PITR) for the first time. If the full backup is not found, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54418) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1915-->
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV and TiFlash is sufficient before restoring snapshot backups. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads each SST file. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
```

>         - Support checking whether a full backup exists before starting point-in-time recovery (PITR) for the first time. If the full backup is not found, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54418) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1915-->
>         - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before restoring snapshot backups. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
>         - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads SST files. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support checking whether a full backup exists before starting point-in-time recovery (PITR) for the first time. If the full backup is not found, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54418) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1915-->
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV and TiFlash is sufficient before restoring snapshot backups. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads each SST file. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830).

* 统计信息收集忽略不必要的列 [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->

    当优化器生成执行计划时，只需要部分列的统计信息，例如过滤条件上的列，连接键上的列，聚合目标用到的列。从 v8.3.0 起，TiDB 会持续观测 SQL 语句对列的使用历史，默认只收集有索引的列，以及被观测到的有必要收集统计信息的列。这将会提升统计信息的收集速度，避免不必要的资源浪费。

    从旧版本升级到 v8.3.0 或更高版本的用户，默认保留原有行为，收集所有列的统计信息，需要手工设置变量 [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) 为 `PREDICATE` 来启用，新部署默认开启。
    
    对于随机查询比较多的偏分析型系统，可以设置 [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) 为 `ALL` 收集所有列的统计信息，保证随机查询的性能。其余类型的系统推荐保留 [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) 为 `PREDICATE` 只收集必要的列。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/statistics.md#收集部分列的统计信息)。

> * Improve the query performance of some system tables  [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1865-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve the query performance of some system tables [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1865-->
```

>     In previous versions, querying system tables has slow performance when the cluster size becomes large and the number of tables is high.

Author: ```suggestion
    In previous versions, querying system tables has slow performance when the cluster size becomes large and there are a large number of tables.
```

    In v8.0.0, query performance is optimized for the following four system tables.
    
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATISTICS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.REFERENTIAL_CONSTRAINTS

    The following query performance of system tables has been optimized in v8.3.0, resulting in a multi-fold performance improvement compared to v8.2.0.

    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CHECK_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PARTITIONS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SEQUENCES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_CHECK_CONSTRAINTS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TiDB_INDEXES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.VIEWS

> * Support for partition pruning when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function to support partition pruning and improve query performance [#54209](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/54209) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1885-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support for partition pruning when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function to improve query performance [#54209](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/54209) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1885-->
```

>     In previous versions, when partition expressions used the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, partition pruning is not supported, resulting in poor query performance. Starting from v8.3.0, partition pruning is supported when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, which improves query performance.

Author: ```suggestion
    In previous versions, when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, partition pruning is not supported, resulting in poor query performance. Starting from v8.3.0, partition pruning is supported when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, which improves query performance.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partition-pruning.md#scenario-three).
    

> * The performance of `CREATE TABLE` is improved by 1.4 times, `CREATE DATABASE` is improved by 2.1 times, and `ADD COLUMN` is improved by 2 times [#54436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54436) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1863-->

Author: ```suggestion
* The performance of `CREATE TABLE` is improved by 1.4 times, `CREATE DATABASE` by 2.1 times, and `ADD COLUMN` by 2 times [#54436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54436) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1863-->
```

    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.
   

>     In v8.3.0, the performance of general DDLs in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.

Author: ```suggestion
    In v8.3.0, the performance of general DDLs in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using 10 sessions to add columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.
```

    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

### SQL

* Support upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks [#54999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54999) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1871-->

    TiDB does not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` yet. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB supports upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks to enable support for `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`. You can control whether to enable this feature by the new variable [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

* Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->

>     In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are more limitations because global indexes are not supported, for example, the unique key must contain a partition key, and if the query condition does not have a partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature is under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

Author: ```suggestion
    In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are some limitations because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must contain a partition key. If the query condition does not have a partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature is under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
```

>     Starting with v8.3.0, the global indexes feature has been released as an experimental feature. When you create a unique key that does not contain all partition keys, TiDB implicitly creates a global index, removing the restriction that the unique key must contain all partition keys, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of indexes without partitioned keys.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature has been released as an experimental feature. When you create a unique key that does not contain all partition keys, TiDB implicitly creates a global index, removing the restriction that the unique key must contain all partition keys, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of indexes without partitioned keys.
```

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, PD implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-pd-side).

* Enhance TiKV log redaction [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    

>     In v8.3.0, TiKV implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.
>     For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-tikv-side).

Author: ```suggestion
    In v8.3.0, TiKV implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-tikv-side).
```

    In previous versions, when partition expressions used the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, partition pruning is not supported, resulting in poor query performance. Starting from v8.3.0, partition pruning is supported when partition expressions use the `EXTRACT(YEAR_MONTH...)` function, which improves query performance.

    For more information, see [documentation](/partition-pruning.md#scenario-three).
    
* The performance of `CREATE TABLE` is improved by 1.4 times, `CREATE DATABASE` is improved by 2.1 times, and `ADD COLUMN` is improved by 2 times [#54436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54436) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1863-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.
   

>     In v8.3.0, besides `CREATE TABLE`, the performance of general DDLs  in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In v8.3.0 the performance of general DDLs  in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.
```

>    In v8.3.0, besides `CREATE TABLE`, the performance of general DDLs  in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.
>      
>     TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.
   
    In v8.3.0, besides `CREATE TABLE`, the performance of general DDLs  in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared to v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of using10 sessions for adding columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared to v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database is 10 times better than v8.1.0 and 2 times better than v8.2.0.
```

    Before v8.3.0, when using primary-secondary mode for high availability, TiProxy requires an additional component to manage the virtual IP. Starting from v8.3.0, TiProxy supports built-in virtual IP management. In primary-secondary mode, when a primary node fails over, the new primary node will automatically bind to the specified virtual IP, ensuring that clients can always connect to an available TiProxy through the virtual IP.

    To enable virtual IP management, specify the virtual IP address using the TiProxy configuration item [`ha.virtual-ip`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#virtual-ip) and specify the network interface to bind the virtual IP to using [`ha.interface`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#interface). If neither of these configuration items is set, this feature is disabled.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md).

### SQL

* Support upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks [#54999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54999) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1871-->

>     TiDB does not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` yet. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB supports upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks to enable support for `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`. You can control whether to enable this feature by the new variable [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830).
>     
>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830).

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB does not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` yet. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB supports upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks to enable support for `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`. You can control whether to enable this feature by the new variable [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).
```

|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 `ANALYZE TABLE` 语句默认收集的列。将其设置为 `PREDICATE` 表示仅收集 [predicate columns](/statistics.md#收集部分列的统计信息) 的统计信息；将其设置为 `ALL` 表示收集所有列的统计信息。 |
| [`tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 这个变量用于控制 [Cursor Fetch](/develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md#使用-streamingresult-流式获取执行结果) 功能的行为。|
| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
| [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope and the variable value persists to the cluster. Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, which means that the optimizer is allowed to push `Projection` down to the TiKV coprocessor. |

> 

Author: ```suggestion
| `tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`     | Modified   | Previously, this variable was only `GLOBAL` scoped. Starting from v8.3.0, it also supports the `SESSION` scope.       |
| `tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`    | Modified   | Previously, this variable was only `GLOBAL` scoped. Starting from v8.3.0, it also supports the `SESSION` scope.      |

```

    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB supports using the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->

>     - Optimize MemDB implementation to reduce write transaction latency [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - Optimize MemDB implementation to reduce write transaction latency [#xxx](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/xxx) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Optimize MemDB implementation to reduce write transaction latency [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->
```

---
title: TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.3.0.
---

# TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.3.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.3.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.3/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (experimental)</a></td> **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->

Author: ```suggestion
    <td> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (experimental)</a></td> **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->
```

    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned keys, and remove the restriction that partitioned keys must contain a unique key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->
    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</td>**tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a></td>**tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->
```

    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.
   
    In v8.3.0, the performance of general DDLs in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared with v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared with v8.2.0. The performance of using 10 sessions to add columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared with v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared with v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database has improved by 10 times compared with v8.1.0 and 2 times compared with v8.2.0.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).    

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->

    In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are some limitations because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must contain a partition key. If the query condition does not have a partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
    
    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature has been released as an experimental feature. When you create a unique key that does not contain all partition keys, TiDB implicitly creates a global index, removing the restriction that the unique key must contain all partition keys, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of unique indexes without partitioned keys.

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).
 
```

* Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->

>     In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are some limitations because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must contain a partition key. If the query condition does not have a partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
>     
>     Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must contain all partition keys, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of unique indexes without partition keys.

Author: ```suggestion
    In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are some limitations because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use every column, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
    
    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of unique indexes without partition keys.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-new-in-v830).

* Enhance SQL execution plan binding [#55280](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55280) [#issue2](to-be-added) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@lilin90** <!--1760-->

    In OLTP scenarios, the optimal execution plan for most SQL statements is fixed. Implementing SQL execution plan binding for important SQL statements in the application can reduce the probability of the execution plan becoming worse and improve system stability. To meet the requirements of creating a large number of SQL execution plan bindings, TiDB enhances the capability and experience of SQL binding, including:

    - Use a single SQL statement to create SQL execution plan bindings from multiple historical execution plans to improve the efficiency of creating bindings.
    - The SQL execution plan binding supports more optimizer hints, and optimizes the conversion method for complex execution plans, making the binding more stable in restoring the execution plan.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md).
```

### SQL

* Support upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks [#54999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54999) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1871-->

    TiDB does not support `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` yet. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB supports upgrading `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE` to exclusive locks to enable support for `SELECT LOCK IN SHARE MODE`. You can control whether to enable this feature by the new variable [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

> 
> * Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->
> 
>     In previous versions of partitioned tables, there are some limitations because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must contain a partition key. If the query condition does not have a partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
>     
>     Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature has been released as an experimental feature. When you create a unique key that does not contain all partition keys, TiDB implicitly creates a global index, removing the restriction that the unique key must contain all partition keys, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of unique indexes without partitioned keys.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).

Author: ```suggestion

```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).

### DB operations

### Observability

* Show the progress of loading initial statistics [#53564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53564) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@lilin90** <!--1792-->

    TiDB loads basic statistics when it starts. In scenarios with many tables or partitions, this process can take a long time. When the configuration item [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v657-and-v710) is set to `ON`, TiDB does not provide services until the initial statistics are loaded. In this case, you need to observe the loading process to estimate the service start time.

    Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB prints the progress of loading initial statistics in stages in the log, so you can understand the running status. To provide formatted results to external tools, TiDB adds the additional [monitoring API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md) so you can obtain the progress of loading initial statistics at any time during the startup phase.

### Security

> * Enhance PD log redaction [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe]l(https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance PD log redaction [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->
```

| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope. |
| [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the pre-aggregation strategy used in the first stage of two-stage or three-stage HashAgg operations pushed down to TiFlash. |
| [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope and the variable value persists to the cluster. Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, which means that the optimizer is allowed to push `Projection` down to the TiKV coprocessor. |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)    | Modified   | Adds the `SESSION` scope.       |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt)  | Modified   | Adds the `SESSION` scope.    |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-从-v50-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 从 v8.3.0 起，该变量可以控制[垃圾回收 (GC)](/garbage-collection-overview.md) 过程中 [Resolve Locks（清理锁）](/garbage-collection-overview.md#resolve-locks清理锁)和 [Delete Range（删除区间）](/garbage-collection-overview.md#Delete-Ranges删除区间)的并发线程数。在 v8.3.0 之前，该变量只能控制 Resolve Locks（清理锁）的线程数。|

```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the batching strategy for requests from TiDB to TiKV. |

> | PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| PD   | [`schedule.max-merge-region-keys`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-keys) |  Modified | Change the default value from `200,000` to `540,000` to accommodate the default value change of `schedule.max-merge-region-size`. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
| PD   | [`schedule.max-merge-region-size`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-size) |  Modified | Change the default value from `20` MiB to `54` MiB to accommodate the increase in the TiKV default Region size to `256` MiB. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
```

> | TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-split-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `96` MiB to `256` MiB. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
| TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-split-size` to `256` MiB. |
| TiKV  | [`backup.sst-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#sst-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-max-size` to `384` MiB. |

```

> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiFlash Server configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.   |

Author: ```suggestion
```

| TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiFlash Server configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.   |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |
|    |   |   |   |

### System tables

> * 在系统表 [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) 和 [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) 中新增 `ROWS_AFFECTED` 字段，用于显示当前 DML 语句已经写入的数据行数。[#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) system tables add the `SESSION_ALIAS` field to show the number of rows written by the DML statement [#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->
```

    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB supports using the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->

>     - GC（垃圾回收）支持并发 Delete Range（删除区间）以提升处理效率，可以通过 [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-从-v50-版本开始引入) 控制并发线程数 [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improving GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting Delete Range concurrently. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
```

---
title: TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.3.0.
---

# TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.3.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.3.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->
    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</td>**tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>

>   <tr>
>     <td>读写性能的细粒度优化</td>**tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->
>     <td>通过优化 KV 请求的策略，增加获取 TSO 的模式等多重手段，进一步提升 TiDB 的读写性能，降低业务的执行时间，改善延迟。</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   </tr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610).

* Optimize batch processing strategy for KV requests [#55206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55206) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1897-->

    TiDB fetches data by sending KV requests. Batching and processing KV requests in bulk can significantly improve execution performance. Before v8.3.0, the batch processing strategy in TiDB is less efficient. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB introduces a more efficient batch strategy on top of the existing one. You can configure different batch processing strategies using the [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) configuration item to accommodate various workloads.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830).
    

> * 增加获取 TSO 的 RPC 模式，降低获取 TSO 的延迟 [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->
> 
>     TiDB 在向 PD 请求 TSO 时，会汇总一定时间段的请求并以同步的方式进行批处理以减少 RPC 请求数量、降低 PD 负载。对于延迟敏感的场景，这种模式的性能并不理想。在 v8.3.0 版本中，TiDB 新增 TSO 请求的异步批处理模式，并提供不同的并发能力，以增加相应的 PD 负载为代价，降低获取 TSO 的延迟。通过新增的变量 [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-从-v830-版本开始引入) 设定获取 TSO 的 RPC 模式。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-从-v830-版本开始引入)。
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).
 
### Reliability

* Support streaming cursor result sets (experimental) [#54526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54526) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) **tw@lilin90** <!--1891-->

    When the application code retrieves the result set using [Cursor Fetch](/develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md#use-streamingresult-to-get-the-execution-result), TiDB usually first stores the complete result set in memory, and then returns the data to the client in batches. If the result set is too large, TiDB might temporarily write the result to the hard disk.

    Starting from v8.3.0, if you set the system variable [`tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-new-in-v830) to `ON`, TiDB no longer reads all data to the TiDB node, but gradually reads data to the TiDB node as the client reads. When TiDB processes large result sets, this feature reduces the memory usage of the TiDB node and improves the stability of the cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-new-in-v830).

> * Enhance SQL execution plan binding [#55280](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55280) [#issue2](to-be-added) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@lilin90** <!--1760-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance SQL execution plan binding [#55280](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55280) [#55343](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55343) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@lilin90** <!--1760-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

### DB operations

### Observability

* Show the progress of loading initial statistics [#53564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53564) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@lilin90** <!--1792-->

    TiDB loads basic statistics when it starts. In scenarios with many tables or partitions, this process can take a long time. When the configuration item [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v657-and-v710) is set to `ON`, TiDB does not provide services until the initial statistics are loaded. In this case, you need to observe the loading process to estimate the service start time.

    Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB prints the progress of loading initial statistics in stages in the log, so you can understand the running status. To provide formatted results to external tools, TiDB adds the additional [monitoring API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md) so you can obtain the progress of loading initial statistics at any time during the startup phase.

### Security

> * Enhance PD log redaction [#51306](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51306) @[xhe](https://github.com/xhebox) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance PD log redaction [#8305](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8305) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->
```

    
    In v8.3.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.2.0 to the current version (v8.3.0). If you are upgrading from v8.1.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 `ANALYZE TABLE` 语句默认收集的列。将其设置为 `PREDICATE` 表示仅收集 [predicate columns](/statistics.md#收集部分列的统计信息) 的统计信息；将其设置为 `ALL` 表示收集所有列的统计信息。 |
| [`tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-从-v830-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 这个变量用于控制 [Cursor Fetch](/develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md#使用-streamingresult-流式获取执行结果) 功能的行为。|

> | [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope. |
```

| TiFlash   | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiFlash Server configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.   |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |

> |    |   |   |   |

Author: ```suggestion
|    |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations)
) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. In the case of compatibility, the DDL to be played back is scrutinized before the incremental restore starts. |
```

    * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) in v7.5.0. You can use it to set TiDB to use asynchronous merging of partition statistics to avoid OOM issues. In future releases, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously, so this system variable will be deprecated.
    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->

>     - TiDB supports using the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - TiDB node supports executing queries with the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->
    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a></td>**tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td>Built-in virtual IP management in TiProxy</td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1887-->

>     <td>In TiDB v8.3.0, TiProxy introduces built-in virtual IP management, which enables automatic virtual IP switching without relying on external platforms or tools. This feature simplifies TiProxy deployment and reduces the complexity of the database access layer.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiProxy introduces built-in virtual IP management. When configured, it supports automatic virtual IP switching without relying on external platforms or tools. This feature simplifies TiProxy deployment and reduces the complexity of the database access layer.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

### Performance

> * The optimizer pushes the `Projection` operator down to the storage engine by default [#51876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51876) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The optimizer allows pushing the `Projection` operator down to the storage engine by default [#51876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51876) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->
```

    Pushing the `Projection` operator down to the storage engine reduces data transfer between the compute engine and the storage engine. This is particularly effective when handling [JSON query functions](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md) or [JSON value attribute functions](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md). Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB enables the `Projection` operator pushdown feature by default, and changes the default value of the system variable controlling this feature, [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610), from `OFF` to `ON`. When this feature is enabled, the optimizer automatically pushes eligible JSON query functions and JSON value attribute functions down to the storage engine.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610).

> * Optimize batch processing strategy for KV requests [#55206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55206) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1897-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Optimize batch processing strategy for KV (key-value) requests [#55206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55206) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1897-->
```

    TiDB fetches data by sending KV requests. Batching and processing KV requests in bulk can significantly improve execution performance. Before v8.3.0, the batch processing strategy in TiDB is less efficient. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB introduces a more efficient batch strategy on top of the existing one. You can configure different batch processing strategies using the [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) configuration item to accommodate various workloads.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830).
    
* TiFlash introduces HashAgg aggregation calculation modes to improve the performance for high NDV data [#9196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9196) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1855-->

>     Before v8.3.0, TiFlash has low aggregation calculation efficiency during the first stage of HashAgg aggregation when handling data with high NDV (number of distinct rows). Starting from v8.3.0, TiFlash introduces multiple HashAgg aggregation calculation modes to improve the performance of data with different characteristics. You can configure the HashAgg aggregation calculation mode using the system variable [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v8.3.0, TiFlash has low aggregation calculation efficiency during the first stage of HashAgg aggregation when handling data with high NDV (number of distinct values). Starting from v8.3.0, TiFlash introduces multiple HashAgg aggregation calculation modes to improve the performance of data with different characteristics. You can configure the HashAgg aggregation calculation mode using the system variable [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830).
```

    - Use a single SQL statement to create SQL execution plan bindings from multiple historical execution plans to improve the efficiency of creating bindings.
    - The SQL execution plan binding supports more optimizer hints, and optimizes the conversion method for complex execution plans, making the binding more stable in restoring the execution plan.

  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-plan-management.md).

### Availability

* TiProxy supports built-in virtual IP management [#583](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/583) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1887-->

    Before v8.3.0, when using primary-secondary mode for high availability, TiProxy requires an additional component to manage the virtual IP. Starting from v8.3.0, TiProxy supports built-in virtual IP management. In primary-secondary mode, when a primary node fails over, the new primary node will automatically bind to the specified virtual IP, ensuring that clients can always connect to an available TiProxy through the virtual IP.

>     To enable virtual IP management, specify the virtual IP address using the TiProxy configuration item [`ha.virtual-ip`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#virtual-ip) and specify the network interface to bind the virtual IP to using [`ha.interface`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#interface). If neither of these configuration items is set, this feature is disabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To enable virtual IP management, specify the virtual IP address using the TiProxy configuration item [`ha.virtual-ip`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#virtual-ip) and specify the network interface to bind the virtual IP to using [`ha.interface`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#interface). The virtual IP will be bound to a TiProxy instance only when both these configuration items are set.
```

| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
| [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope. |
| [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the pre-aggregation strategy used in the first stage of two-stage or three-stage HashAgg operations pushed down to TiFlash. |
| [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope and the variable value persists to the cluster. Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, which means that the optimizer is allowed to push `Projection` down to the TiKV coprocessor. |

> | [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)    | Modified   | Adds the `SESSION` scope.       |
> | [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt)  | Modified   | Adds the `SESSION` scope.    |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)    | Modified   | Adds the SESSION scope.       |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt)  | Modified   | Adds the SESSION scope.    |
```

| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-split-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `96` MiB to `256` MiB. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
| TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-split-size` to `256` MiB. |
| TiKV  | [`backup.sst-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#sst-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-max-size` to `384` MiB. |

> 
> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |
> |  BR  |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations)
> ) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. In the case of compatibility, the DDL to be played back is scrutinized before the incremental restore starts. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |
|  BR  |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. In the case of compatibility, the DDL to be played back is scrutinized before the incremental restore starts. |
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

### DB operations

### Observability

* Show the progress of loading initial statistics [#53564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53564) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@lilin90** <!--1792-->

    TiDB loads basic statistics when it starts. In scenarios with many tables or partitions, this process can take a long time. When the configuration item [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v657-and-v710) is set to `ON`, TiDB does not provide services until the initial statistics are loaded. In this case, you need to observe the loading process to estimate the service start time.

    Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB prints the progress of loading initial statistics in stages in the log, so you can understand the running status. To provide formatted results to external tools, TiDB adds the additional [monitoring API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md) so you can obtain the progress of loading initial statistics at any time during the startup phase.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* Display metrics about resource groups [#8444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8444) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

```

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-pd-side).

* Enhance TiKV log redaction [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, TiKV implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-tikv-side).

### Data migration

* TiCDC supports replicating DDL statements in bi-directional replication (BDR) mode (GA) [#10301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10301) [#48519](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48519) @okJiang @asddongmen **tw@hfxsd** <!--1689-->

>     TiCDC v7.6.0 introduced the replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, replicating DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to apply DDL statements to both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, TiCDC allows for a cluster to be assigned the PRIMARY BDR role, and enables the replication of DDL statements from that cluster to the downstream cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiCDC v7.6.0 introduced the replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, bi-directional replication of DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to execute DDL statements on both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, after assigning a `PRIMARY` BDR role to a cluster, TiCDC can replicate the DDL statements from that cluster to the `SECONDARY` cluster.
```

    
    In v8.3.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.2.0 to the current version (v8.3.0). If you are upgrading from v8.1.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* To avoid incorrect use of commands, pd-ctl cancels the prefix matching mechanism. For example, `store remove-tombstone` cannot be called via `store remove` [#8413](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8413) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB node supports executing queries with the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->
    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    
+ TiKV

+ PD

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 notes-->

    - 优化 async-io 的 batching 的能力，减少对 IO bandwidth 资源的使用 [#16907](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16907) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 重新设计了 CDC  的 delegate 和 downstream 模块以更好的支持 partial subscription [#16362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16362) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
    - 减少单个 slow log 的大小  [#17294](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17294) @(Connor1996)[https://github.com/Connor1996]
    - 增加 `min safe ts` metric [#17307](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17307) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - 减少 peer message channel 的内存使用 [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

```

    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复加密管理器在使用前未初始化的问题 [#8384](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8384) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复部分日志未脱敏的问题 [#8419](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8419) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复在 PD 开启微服务时，重定向可能发生 panic 的问题 [#8406](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8406) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - 修复了 split-merge-interval 不生效的问题 [#8404](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8404) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 修复了开启 replication.strictly-match-label=true 时启动 TiFlash 失败的问题 [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复极端场景下可能导致获取 TSO 慢的问题 [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复了大规模集群下可能发生数据竞争的问题 [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复 runaway 只统计 coprocessor 过程时间消耗的 bug，增加 TiDB 侧的时间统计 [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

>     

Author: ```suggestion
 
 + TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 6 notes-->
 
    - 优化 async-io 的 batching 的能力，减少对 IO bandwidth 资源的使用 [#16907](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16907) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 重新设计了 CDC  的 delegate 和 downstream 模块以更好的支持 partial subscription [#16362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16362) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
    - 减少单个 slow log 的大小  [#17294](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17294) @(Connor1996)[https://github.com/Connor1996]
    - 增加 `min safe ts` metric [#17307](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17307) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - 减少 peer message channel 的内存使用 [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    
```

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 4 notes-->

>     - 修复使用 `CAST()` 函数将字符串转换为带时区或非法字符的日期时间时结果错误的问题 [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
>     - 修复 TiFlash 与任意 PD 发生网络分区后，可能导致读请求超时报错的问题 [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
>     - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when using the `CAST()` function to convert a string to a datetime with a time zone or invalid characters, the result is incorrect [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that when TiFlash is network partitioned with any PD, read request timeout errors might occur [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复跨数据库对含空分区的分区表执行 `RENAME TABLE ... TO ...` 后，TiFlash 可能 panic 的问题 [#9132](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9132) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复开启延迟物化后，部分查询在执行时可能报列类型不匹配错误的问题 [#9175](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9175) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复开启延迟物化后，带有虚拟生成列的查询可能返回错误结果的问题 [#9188](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9188) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复将 TiFlash 中 SSL 证书配置项设置为空字符串会错误开启 TLS 并导致 TiFlash 启动失败的问题 [#9235](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9235) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复数据库创建后短时间内被删除时，TiFlash 可能 panic 的问题 [#9266](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9266) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 TiFlash 与任意 PD 之间发生网络分区（即网络连接断开），可能导致读请求超时报错的问题 [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

>     - 修复在存算分离架构下，TiFlash 写节点可能重启失败的问题 [#9282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9282) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
>     - 修复在存算分离架构下，TiFlash 写节点的读快照可能没有被及时释放的问题 [#9298](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9298) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash write nodes might fail to restart in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9282) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that read snapshots of TiFlash write nodes are not released in a timely manner in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9298](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9298) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 notes-->

    - 修复了 grafana TiKV 组件中的 `Ingestion picked level` 和 `Compaction Job Size(files)` 显示不正确的问题 [#15990](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15990) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - 修复了 `cancel_generating_snap` 错误更新 `snap_tried_cnt` 导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#17226](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17226) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - 修复了 `Ingest SST duration seconds` 统计 tag 错误的问题 [#17239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17239) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 修复了 CPU profiling flag 在出现错误时没有正确重置的问题 [#17234](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17234) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - 修复了旧版本 (< 7.1) 和之后版本 bloom filter 无法兼容的问题 [#17272](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17272) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复增量恢复过程中 `ADD INDEX`、`MODIFY COLUMN` 等需要回填的 DDL 可能无法正确恢复的问题 [#54426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54426) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@lilin90: 1 note-->

        - 修复当下游 Kafka 无法访问时，Processor 模块可能卡住的问题 [#11340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11340) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw@hfxsd: 1 note-->

        - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复 schema tracker 无法正确处理 LIST 分区表导致 DM 报错的问题 [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复当索引长度超过 `max-index-length` 默认值时数据同步中断的问题 [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)

>         - 修复了 DM 对 FAKE_ROTATE_EVENT 处理不正确的问题 [#11381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11381) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM cannot handle `FAKE_ROTATE_EVENT` correctly [#11381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11381) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the batching strategy for requests from TiDB to TiKV. |
| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |

> | PD   | [`schedule.max-merge-region-keys`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-keys) |  Modified | Change the default value from `200,000` to `540,000` to accommodate the default value change of `schedule.max-merge-region-size`. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
> | PD   | [`schedule.max-merge-region-size`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-size) |  Modified | Change the default value from `20` MiB to `54` MiB to accommodate the increase in the TiKV default Region size to `256` MiB. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
> | TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-split-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `96` MiB to `256` MiB. This change helps reduce management pressure caused by an excessive number of Regions as the cluster size grows. |
> | TiKV  | [`coprocessor.region-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-split-size` to `256` MiB. |
> | TiKV  | [`backup.sst-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#sst-max-size)  | Modified | Change the default value from `144` MiB to `384` MiB to accommodate the increase in `coprocessor.region-max-size` to `384` MiB. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
```

    - 修复从 `YEAR` 转换为 JSON 格式时的 `json_type` 错误的问题 [#54027](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54027) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复系统变量 `tidb_schema_cache_size` 的取值范围错误的问题 [#54034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54034) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)
    - 修复当分区表达式为 `EXTRACT(YEAR FROM col)` 时不会分区裁剪的问题 [#54210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54210) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复了表数量较多情况下 `FLASHBACK DATABASE` 失败的问题 [#54415](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54415) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复了使用 fast_reorg 模式添加索引可能失败的问题 [#54568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54568) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复了 `ADMIN CANCEL DDL JOBS` 可能导致 DDL 失败的问题 [#54687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54687) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复了库数量较多情况下 `FLASHBACK DATABASE` 死循环的问题 [#54915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54915) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复了来自 DM 同步的超过索引列最大长度的表时同步失败的问题 [#55138](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55138) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 12 notes-->

>     - 修复打开 `tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern` 时，执行 SQL 语句可能报错 `runtime error: index out of range` 的问题 [#54535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54535) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
>     - 修复 TiDB 在统计信息初始化的过程中，无法通过 `CTRL+C` 的方式退出 TiDB 的问题 [#54589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54589) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - 废弃 `inl_merge_join` Optimizer Hint. [#54064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54064) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - 修复关联子查询中包含 `WITH ROLLUP` 时可能 panic 并报错 `runtime error: index out of range` 的问题 [#54983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54983) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - 修复当 SQL 查询的过滤条件中包含虚拟列，且执行条件中包含 `UnionScan` 时，谓词无法正常下推的问题 [#54870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54870) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复打开 `tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern` 时，执行 SQL 语句可能报错 `runtime error: invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` 的问题 [#55169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55169) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复包含 `UNION` 的查询语句结果可能错误的问题 [#52985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52985) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
>     - 修复 `mysql.stats_histograms` 表的 `tot_col_size` 列可能为负数的潜在风险 [#55126](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55126) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复 `columnEvaluator` 无法识别输入 chunk 中的列引用，导致执行 SQL 报错 `runtime error: index out of range` 的问题。 [#53713](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53713) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - `STATS_EXTENDED` 不再是保留关键字 [#39573](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39573) @[wddevries](https://github.com/wddevries)
>     - 修复 `tidb_low_resolution` 开启时，`select for update` 可以被执行的问题 [#54684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54684) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
>     - 修复 `tidb_redact_log` 开启时，内部 SQL 在慢日志里无法显示的问题 [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `runtime error: index out of range` might occur when executing SQL statements with `tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern` enabled [#54535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54535) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that you cannot exit TiDB by `CTRL+C` during statistics initialization in TiDB [#54589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54589) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the `INL_MERGE_JOIN` optimizer hint returns incorrect results by deprecating it [#54064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54064) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复关联子查询中包含 `WITH ROLLUP` 时可能 panic 并报错 `runtime error: index out of range` 的问题 [#54983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54983) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复当 SQL 查询的过滤条件中包含虚拟列，且执行条件中包含 `UnionScan` 时，谓词无法正常下推的问题 [#54870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54870) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复打开 `tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern` 时，执行 SQL 语句可能报错 `runtime error: invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` 的问题 [#55169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55169) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复包含 `UNION` 的查询语句结果可能错误的问题 [#52985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52985) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - 修复 `mysql.stats_histograms` 表的 `tot_col_size` 列可能为负数的潜在风险 [#55126](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55126) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 `columnEvaluator` 无法识别输入 chunk 中的列引用，导致执行 SQL 报错 `runtime error: index out of range` 的问题。 [#53713](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53713) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - `STATS_EXTENDED` 不再是保留关键字 [#39573](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39573) @[wddevries](https://github.com/wddevries)
    - 修复 `tidb_low_resolution` 开启时，`select for update` 可以被执行的问题 [#54684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54684) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - 修复 `tidb_redact_log` 开启时，内部 SQL 在慢日志里无法显示的问题 [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

        - Fix the issue that DM cannot handle `FAKE_ROTATE_EVENT` correctly [#11381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11381) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 3 notes-->

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 修复 TiDB Lightning 获取 keyspace 失败时输出的 `WARN` 日志可能引起用户混淆的问题 [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - 修复了 lightning TLS 配置影响集群证书的问题 [#54172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54172) @[ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)
        - 修复了使用 lightning 导入数据时报事务冲突的问题 [#49826](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49826) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - 修复了导入大量库表时，checkpoint 文件过大导致性能差的问题 [#55054](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55054) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

> - [贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
- [ari-e](https://github.com/ari-e)
- [ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)
- [HaoW30](https://github.com/HaoW30)
- [JackL9u](https://github.com/JackL9u)
- [michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
- [mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
- [qingfeng777](https://github.com/qingfeng777)
- [renovate](https://github.com/apps/renovate)
- [SandeepPadhi](https://github.com/SandeepPadhi)
- [yzhan1](https://github.com/yzhan1)
```

| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | Controls whether to enable the feature of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
| [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the pre-aggregation strategy used during the first stage of two-stage or three-stage HashAgg operations pushed down to TiFlash. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the batching strategy for requests from TiDB to TiKV. |

> | PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | BR  | [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  | Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. When you keep the default value `true`, the DDLs that need to be replayed are strictly checked before the incremental restore begins. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| BR  | [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  | Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. When you keep the default value `true`, the DDLs that need to be replayed are strictly checked before the incremental restore begins. |
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support the `SELECT ... STRAIGHT_JOIN ... USING ( ... )` statement [#54162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54162) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Construct more precise index access ranges for filter conditions like `((idx_col_1 > 1) or (idx_col_1 = 1 and idx_col_2 > 10)) and ((idx_col_1 < 10) or (idx_col_1 = 10 and idx_col_2 < 20))` [#54337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54337) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)
    - Use index order to avoid extra sorting operations for SQL queries like `WHERE idx_col_1 IS NULL ORDER BY idx_col_2` [#54188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54188) @[ari-e](https://github.com/ari-e)
    - Display analyzed indexes in the `mysql.analyze_jobs` system table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Support applying the `tidb_redact_log` setting to the output of `EXPLAIN` statements [#54565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54565) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Support backing up and restoring the `mysql.column_stats_usage` table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    - Optimize the error message that returns when you misconfigure PD microservices [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Add the `--name` startup parameter to PD microservices to more accurately display the service name during deployment [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Support dynamically adjusting `PatrolRegionScanLimit` based on the number of Regions to reduce Region scan time [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiKV

    - Optimize the batching policy for writing Raft logs when `async-io` is enabled to reduce the consumption of disk I/O bandwidth resources [#16907](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16907) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Redesign the TiCDC delegate and downstream modules to better support Region partial subscription [#16362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16362) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>     - Reduce the size of a single slow query log [#17294](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17294) @(Connor1996)[https://github.com/Connor1996]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the size of a single slow query log [#17294](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17294) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

    - Add a new monitoring metric `min safe ts` [#17307](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17307) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - Reduce the memory usage of the peer message channel [#16229](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16229) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ TiFlash

>     - Support generating adhoc heap profiling in SVG format [#9320](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9320) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support generating ad hoc heap profiling in SVG format [#9320](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9320) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
```

        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads each SST file. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Support setting Alibaba Cloud access credentials through environment variables [#45551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45551) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Optimize the backup feature, improving backup performance and stability during node restarts, cluster scaling-out, and network jitter when backing up large numbers of tables [#52534](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52534) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Automatically set the environment variable `GOMEMLIMIT` based on the available memory of the BR process to avoid OOM when using BR for backup and restore [#53777](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53777) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Make incremental backups compatible with point-in-time recovery (PITR) [#54474](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54474) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support backing up and restoring the `mysql.column_stats_usage` table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

```

    - Fix the issue that setting `replication.strictly-match-label` to `true` causes TiFlash to fail to start [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that fetching TSO is slow when analyzing large partitioned tables, causing `ANALYZE` performance degradation [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the potential data races in large clusters [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that when determining whether queries are Runaway Queries, TiDB only counts time consumption spent on the Coprocessor side while missing time consumption spent on the TiDB side, resulting in some queries not being identified as Runaway Queries [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that when using the `CAST()` function to convert a string to a datetime with a time zone or invalid characters, the result is incorrect [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

>     - Fix the issue that when TiFlash is network partitioned with any PD, read request timeout errors might occur [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 4: duplicated with line 380
```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that setting the SSL certificate configuration to an empty string in TiFlash incorrectly enables TLS and causes TiFlash to fail to start [#9235](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9235) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when a database is deleted shortly after creation [#9266](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9266) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that a network partition (network disconnection) between TiFlash and any PD might cause read request timeout errors [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash write nodes might fail to restart in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9282](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9282) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that read snapshots of TiFlash write nodes are not released in a timely manner in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9298](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9298) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ TiKV

> 

Reviewer 5: Adding a TiKV bug fix for https://pingcap-ticket.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/kbpublic/pages/185073680/Critical+Bug+TiKV+8.2.0+may+lose+data+when+regions+are+moved+out

```suggestion

    - Fix the issue that cleaning up stale regions may accidentally delete valid data [#17258](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17258) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
```

    For analytical systems with many random queries, you can set the system variable [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-new-in-v830) to `ALL` to collect statistics for all columns, to ensure the performance of random queries. For other types of systems, it is recommended to keep the default setting (`PREDICATE`) of [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-new-in-v830) to collect statistics for only necessary columns.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-on-some-columns).

* Improve the query performance of some system tables [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1865-->

    In previous versions, querying system tables has slow performance when the cluster size becomes large and there are a large number of tables.

    In v8.0.0, query performance is optimized for the following four system tables.
    
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATISTICS
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE
    - INFORMATION_SCHEMA.REFERENTIAL_CONSTRAINTS

>     The following query performance of system tables has been optimized in v8.3.0, resulting in a multi-fold performance improvement compared to v8.2.0.

Author: ```suggestion
  The following query performance of system tables has been optimized in v8.3.0, resulting in a multi-fold performance improvement compared to v8.2.0.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830).

### DB operations

### Observability

* Show the progress of loading initial statistics [#53564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53564) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@lilin90** <!--1792-->

    TiDB loads basic statistics when it starts. In scenarios with many tables or partitions, this process can take a long time. When the configuration item [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v657-and-v710) is set to `ON`, TiDB does not provide services until the initial statistics are loaded. In this case, you need to observe the loading process to estimate the service start time.

    Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB prints the progress of loading initial statistics in stages in the log, so you can understand the running status. To provide formatted results to external tools, TiDB adds the additional [monitoring API](/tidb-monitoring-api.md) so you can obtain the progress of loading initial statistics at any time during the startup phase.

> * Display metrics about resource groups [#8444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8444) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Author: ```suggestion
* Add RU metrics on the Resource Control dashboard [#8444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8444) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

### Security

* Enhance PD log redaction [#8305](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8305) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1861-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
    
    In v8.3.0, PD implements a similar log redaction enhancement. To use this feature, you can set the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/log-redaction.md#log-redaction-in-pd-side).

* Enhance TiKV log redaction [#17206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17206) @[lucasliang](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1862-->

>     TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with single-angle quotation marks `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances log redaction and supports marking user data in TiDB logs with `‹›`. Based on the marked logs, you can decide whether to redact the marked information when displaying the logs, thus increasing the flexibility of log redaction. In v8.2.0, TiFlash implements a similar log redaction enhancement.
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB node supports executing queries with the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->
    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    
+ TiKV

+ PD

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 notes-->

>     - Optimize `async-io` batching mechanism to reduce I/O bandwidth usage [#16907](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16907) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the batching policy for writing Raft logs under `async-io` to reduce use of disk I/O bandwidth resources [#16907](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16907) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

>     - Redesigned TiCDC's delegate and downstream modules to better support partial subscription [#16362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16362) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Redesigned TiCDC's delegate and downstream modules to better support Region partial subscription [#16362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16362) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.3.0.
---

# TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.3.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.3.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (experimental)</a></td>

>     <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned keys, and remove the restriction that partitioned keys must contain a unique key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partitioned key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>
```

    TiDB v8.0.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_fast_create_table`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800) to improve table creation performance in batch table creation scenarios. In v8.3.0, when submitting the DDL statements for table creation concurrently through 10 sessions in a single database, the performance is improved by 1.4 times compared with v8.2.0.

    In v8.3.0, the performance of general DDLs in batch execution has improved compared to v8.2.0. The performance of `CREATE DATABASE` for 10 sessions concurrently improves by 19 times compared with v8.1.0 and 2.1 times compared with v8.2.0. The performance of using 10 sessions to add columns (`ADD COLUMN`) to multiple tables in the same database in batch has improved by 10 times compared with v8.1.0, and 2.1 times compared with v8.2.0. The performance of `ADD COLUMN` with 10 sessions on multiple tables in the same database has improved by 10 times compared with v8.1.0 and 2 times compared with v8.2.0.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_create_table-new-in-v800).

> * Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 6: Also @Defined2014 should be attributed, as well as @jiyfhust and @L-maple (two external contributors).
Previously there have been even more contributors, like @tiancaiamao , @bb7133, @crazycs520 and more :)
Since the mentioned enhancement Issue is just a TODO :)

> * Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Author: ```suggestion
* Partitioned tables support global indexes (experimental) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
```

    In previous versions of partitioned tables, some limitations exist because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use the partitioning key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

>     Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also improve the query performance of unique indexes without partition keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also enhance the performance of queries that do not include partition keys.
```

| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | Controls whether to enable the feature of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
| [`tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_hashagg_preaggregation_mode-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the pre-aggregation strategy used during the first stage of two-stage or three-stage HashAgg operations pushed down to TiFlash. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`tikv-client.batch-policy`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#batch-policy-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the batching strategy for requests from TiDB to TiKV. |

> | PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
> | TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |

Author: ```suggestion
| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹ ›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹ ›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log` to `"marker"` to mark sensitive information in the log with `‹ ›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `"marker"` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
```

### Behavior changes

* To avoid incorrect use of commands, `pd-ctl` cancels the prefix matching mechanism. For example, `store remove-tombstone` cannot be called via `store remove` [#8413](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8413) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](#tidb_analyze_column_options-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the behavior of the `ANALYZE TABLE` statement. Setting it to the default value `PREDICATE` means only collecting statistics for [predicate columns](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-on-some-columns); setting it to `ALL` means collecting statistics for all columns. |
| [`tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_lazy_cursor_fetch-new-in-v830) | Newly added | Controls the behavior of the [Cursor Fetch](/develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md#use-streamingresult-to-get-the-execution-result) feature. |

> | [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | Controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |

Reviewer: Is this variable the following one?
```
[`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830)
```

> | [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_upgrade-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | Controls whether to enable the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_shared_lock_promotion-new-in-v830)       | Newly added  | Controls whether to enable the feature of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks. The default value of this variable is `OFF`, which means that the function of upgrading shared locks to exclusive locks is disabled. |
```

| [`tidb_opt_projection_push_down`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610) | Modified | Adds the GLOBAL scope and the variable value persists to the cluster. Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON` after further tests, which means that the optimizer is allowed to push `Projection` down to the TiKV coprocessor. |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_batch_size)    | Modified   | Adds the SESSION scope.       |
| [`tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_reorg_worker_cnt)  | Modified   | Adds the SESSION scope.    |
| [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) | Modified | Starting from v8.3.0, this variable controls the number of concurrent threads during the [Resolve Locks](/garbage-collection-overview.md#resolve-locks) and [Delete Range](/garbage-collection-overview.md#Delete-Ranges) steps of the [Garbage Collection (GC)](/garbage-collection-overview.md) process. Before v8.3.0, this variable only controls the number of threads during the [Resolve Locks](/garbage-collection-overview.md#resolve-locks) step. |

> 

Reviewer: @hfxsd 
The row order in the above system variables table needs to be adjusted. First, list the rows of  'Modified' variables in alphabetical order, and then list the rows of 'New' variables in alphabetical order.

Author: Thanks. Done.

| PD   |  [`security.redact-info-log`](/pd-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v50) |  Modified | Support setting the value of the PD configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiKV  | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v408)  | Modified | Support setting the value of the TiKV configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules.  |
| TiFlash   | [`security.redact-info-log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflash-learnertoml-file) | Modified |  Support setting the value of the TiFlash Learner configuration item `security.redact-info-log' to `marker` to mark sensitive information in the log with single-angle quotation marks `‹›` instead of shielding it directly. With the `marker` option, you can customize the redaction rules  |

> |  BR  |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. In the case of compatibility, the DDL to be played back is scrutinized before the incremental restore starts. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  BR  |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. When you keep the default value `true`, the DDLs that need to be replayed are strictly checked before the incremental restore begins. |
```

Reviewer: ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/br-incremental-guide#limitations

    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 13 notes-->

    - Support the `SELECT ... STRAIGHT_JOIN ... USING ( ... )` statement [#54162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54162) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Construct more precise index access ranges for filter conditions like `((idx_col_1 > 1) or (idx_col_1 = 1 and idx_col_2 > 10)) and ((idx_col_1 < 10) or (idx_col_1 = 10 and idx_col_2 < 20))` [#54337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54337) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)
    - Use index order to avoid extra sorting operations for SQL queries like `WHERE idx_col_1 IS NULL ORDER BY idx_col_2` [#54188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54188) @[ari-e](https://github.com/ari-e)

>     - Display analyzed indexes in the `analyze_jobs` table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Display analyzed indexes in the `mysql.analyze_job` system table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    - Support applying the `tidb_redact_log` setting to the output of `EXPLAIN` statements [#54565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54565) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Support backing up and restoring the `mysql.column_stats_usage` table [#53567](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53567) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>     - Support generating the `Selection` operator on `IndexRangeScan` for multi-valued indexes [#54876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54876) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support generating the `Selection` operator on `IndexRangeScan` for multi-valued indexes to improve query efficiency [#54876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54876) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
```

>     - Support killing running automatic `ANALYZE` tasks outside the set time window [#55283](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55283) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support killing automatic `ANALYZE` tasks that are running outside the set time window [#55283](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55283) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - The TopN operator supports disk spill [#47733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47733) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1715-->
    - TiDB node supports executing queries with the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#42631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42631) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1714-->
    - The system variable [`tidb_low_resolution_tso`](/system-variables.md#tidb_low_resolution_tso-new-in-v830) supports `GLOBAL` scope [#55022](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55022) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1857-->
    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    - Improve the performance of bulk DML execution mode (`tidb_dml_type = "bulk"`) [#50215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50215) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

>     - Improve the performance of schema information cache-related interface schema `SchemaByID` [#54074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54074) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the performance of schema information cache-related interface `SchemaByID` [#54074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54074) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
```

    - Improve the query performance for certain system tables when schema information caching is enabled [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Optimize error messages for conflicting keys when adding unique indexes [#53004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53004) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

+ TiKV

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 9 notes-->

    - Support modifying the `batch` configuration of the `evict-leader-scheduler` via `pd-ctl` to accelerate the leader eviction process [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Add the `store_id` monitoring metric to the **Cluster > Label distribution** panel in Grafana to display store IDs corresponding to different labels [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Support fallback to the default resource group when the specified resource group does not exist [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

>     - Add the `approximate_kv_size` field to the Region information returned by the `pd-ctl region` command [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add the `approximate_kv_size` field to the Region information output by the `region` command in `pd-ctl` [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复当索引长度超过 `max-index-length` 默认值时数据同步中断的问题 [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
        - Fix the issue that DM cannot handle `FAKE_ROTATE_EVENT` correctly [#11381](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11381) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 3 notes-->

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 修复 TiDB Lightning 获取 keyspace 失败时输出的 `WARN` 日志可能引起用户混淆的问题 [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that the TLS configuration of TiDB Lightning affects cluster certificates [#54172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54172) @[ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)

>         - Fix the issue that transaction conflicts occur when importing data using TiDB Lightning [#49826](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49826) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that transaction conflicts occur during data import using TiDB Lightning [#49826](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49826) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>         - Fix the issue that large checkpoint files cause performance degradation when importing numerous databases and tables [#55054](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55054) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that large checkpoint files cause performance degradation during the import of numerous databases and tables [#55054](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55054) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a></td>
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tiproxy-overview">Built-in virtual IP management in TiProxy</a></td>
    <td>TiProxy introduces built-in virtual IP management. When configured, it supports automatic virtual IP switching without relying on external platforms or tools. This feature simplifies TiProxy deployment and reduces the complexity of the database access layer.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

> 
> ### Scalability
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.3.0.
---

> 

Author: Preview https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-for-v83-rn-hfxsds-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-8.3.0

# TiDB 8.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.3.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.3.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
>     <td> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (experimental)</a></td> **tw@hfxsd** <!--1531-->
>     <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned keys, and remove the restriction that partitioned keys must contain a unique key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/system-variables#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610">Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</a></td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1872-->
>     <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a></td>**tw@lilin90** <!--1753-->
>     <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td rowspan="1">Reliability and Availability</td>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tiproxy-overview">Built-in virtual IP management in TiProxy</a></td>**tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1887-->
>     <td>TiProxy introduces built-in virtual IP management. When configured, it supports automatic virtual IP switching without relying on external platforms or tools. This feature simplifies TiProxy deployment and reduces the complexity of the database access layer.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td> <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (experimental)</a></td>
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned keys, and remove the restriction that partitioned keys must contain a unique key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/system-variables#tidb_opt_projection_push_down-new-in-v610">Default pushdown of the <code>Projection</code> operator to the storage engine</a></td>
    <td>Pushing the <code>Projection</code> operator down to the storage engine can distribute the load across storage nodes while reducing data transfer between nodes. This optimization helps to reduce the execution time for certain SQL queries and improves the overall database performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/statistics#collect-statistics-on-some-columns">Ignoring unnecessary columns when collecting statistics</a></td>
    <td>Under the premise of ensuring that the optimizer can obtain the necessary information, TiDB speeds up statistics collection, improves the timeliness of statistics, and thus ensures that the optimal execution plan is selected, improving the performance of the cluster. Meanwhile, TiDB also reduces the system overhead and improves the resource utilization.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tiproxy-overview">Built-in virtual IP management in TiProxy</a></td>
    <td>TiProxy introduces built-in virtual IP management. When configured, it supports automatic virtual IP switching without relying on external platforms or tools. This feature simplifies TiProxy deployment and reduces the complexity of the database access layer.</td>
```

    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    - Improve the performance of bulk DML execution mode (`tidb_dml_type = "bulk"`) [#50215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50215) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - Improve the performance of schema information cache-related interface schema `SchemaByID` [#54074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54074) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
    - Improve the query performance for certain system tables when schema information caching is enabled [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Optimize error messages for conflicting keys when adding unique indexes [#53004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53004) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

+ TiKV

> + PD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 9 notes-->

    - 支持通过 `pd-ctl` 修改 `evict-leader-scheduler` 的 `batch` 配置，以提升驱逐 Leader 的速度 [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    -  Grafana 上的 `Label distribution` 面板新增 ` store_id` 监控指标，用于显示不同的 label 对应的 store ID [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - 当指定的资源组不存在时，支持回退到默认资源组 [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - 使用 `pd-ctl` 的 `region` 命令显示 Region 信息时，输出中新增 `approximate_kv_size` 信息 [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
    - 优化调用 API 删除 TTL 配置时的输出信息 [#8450](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8450) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 优化大查询读请求消耗 RU 的行为，以减少对其他请求的影响 [#8457](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8457) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - 优化了 PD 微服务设置错误时返回的报错信息 [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - PD 微服务新增 `--name` 启动参数，以便部署时更精确地显示服务名称 [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - 支持通过 Region 数量动态调整 `PatrolRegionScanLimit`，以减少扫描 Region 所需的时间 [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复资源组在请求 token 超过 500 ms 时遇到超出配额限制的问题 [#8349](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8349) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` 表中时间类型不正确的问题 [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复资源组 (Resource Group) 在高并发场景下无法有效限制资源使用的问题 [#8435](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8435) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复获取表属性时错误调用 PD API 的问题 [#55188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55188) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复开启 `scheduling` 微服务后，扩缩容进度显示错误的问题 [#8331](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8331) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复加密管理器在使用前未初始化的问题 [#8384](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8384) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复部分日志未脱敏的问题 [#8419](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8419) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - 修复在 PD 开启微服务时，重定向可能发生 panic 的问题 [#8406](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8406) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - 修复了 split-merge-interval 不生效的问题 [#8404](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8404) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复了开启 replication.strictly-match-label=true 时启动 TiFlash 失败的问题 [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复极端场景下可能导致获取 TSO 慢的问题 [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复了大规模集群下可能发生数据竞争的问题 [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复 runaway 只统计 coprocessor 过程时间消耗的 bug，增加 TiDB 侧的时间统计 [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复开启 PD 微服务时，重定向可能 panic 的问题 [#8406](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8406) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - 修复反复修改 `split-merge-interval` 的值（例如从 `1s` 改为 `1h`，再改回 `1s`）可能导致该配置不生效的问题 [#8404](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8404) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 修复设置 `replication.strictly-match-label` 为 `true` 导致 TiFlash 启动失败的问题 [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复在 `ANALYZE` 大规模分区表时获取 TSO 慢导致 `ANALYZE` 性能下降的问题 [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复了大规模集群下可能发生数据竞争的问题 [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复 TiDB 在判断查询是否为 Runaway Queries 时，只统计了 Coprocessor 侧的时间消耗但未统计 TiDB 侧的时间消耗，导致一些查询未被识别为 Runaway Queries 的问题 [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    - Improve the performance of bulk DML execution mode (`tidb_dml_type = "bulk"`) [#50215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50215) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - Improve the performance of schema information cache-related interface schema `SchemaByID` [#54074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54074) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
    - Improve the query performance for certain system tables when schema information caching is enabled [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Optimize error messages for conflicting keys when adding unique indexes [#53004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53004) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

+ TiKV

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 9 notes-->

>     - 支持通过 `pd-ctl` 修改 `evict-leader-scheduler` 的 `batch` 配置，以提升驱逐 Leader 的速度 [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     -  Grafana 上的 `Label distribution` 面板新增 ` store_id` 监控指标，用于显示不同的 label 对应的 store ID [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - 当指定的资源组不存在时，支持回退到默认资源组 [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
>     - 使用 `pd-ctl` 的 `region` 命令显示 Region 信息时，输出中新增 `approximate_kv_size` 信息 [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
>     - 优化调用 API 删除 TTL 配置时的输出信息 [#8450](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8450) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 优化大查询读请求消耗 RU 的行为，以减少对其他请求的影响 [#8457](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8457) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - 优化了 PD 微服务设置错误时返回的报错信息 [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - PD 微服务新增 `--name` 启动参数，以便部署时更精确地显示服务名称 [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - 支持通过 Region 数量动态调整 `PatrolRegionScanLimit`，以减少扫描 Region 所需的时间 [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support modifying the `batch` configuration of the `evict-leader-scheduler` via `pd-ctl` to improve leader eviction speed [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
- Add the `store_id` monitoring metric to the `Label distribution` panel in Grafana to display store IDs corresponding to different labels [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
- Support fallback to the default resource group when the specified resource group does not exist [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
- Add `approximate_kv_size` information to the output when displaying Region information using the `region` command of `pd-ctl` [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
- Optimize the output message when deleting TTL configuration via API [#8450](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8450) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
- Optimize the RU consumption behavior of large query read requests to reduce the impact on other requests [#8457](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8457) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
- Optimize the error message returned when setting errors in PD microservices [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
- Add the `--name` startup parameter to PD microservices to more accurately display the service name during deployment [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
- Support dynamically adjusting `PatrolRegionScanLimit` based on the number of Regions to reduce Region scan time [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

```

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复资源组在请求 token 超过 500 ms 时遇到超出配额限制的问题 [#8349](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8349) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` 表中时间类型不正确的问题 [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复资源组 (Resource Group) 在高并发场景下无法有效限制资源使用的问题 [#8435](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8435) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复获取表属性时错误调用 PD API 的问题 [#55188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55188) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复开启 `scheduling` 微服务后，扩缩容进度显示错误的问题 [#8331](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8331) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复加密管理器在使用前未初始化的问题 [#8384](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8384) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.1.1.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复部分日志未脱敏的问题 [#8419](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8419) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - 修复开启 PD 微服务时，重定向可能 panic 的问题 [#8406](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8406) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - 修复反复修改 `split-merge-interval` 的值（例如从 `1s` 改为 `1h`，再改回 `1s`）可能导致该配置不生效的问题 [#8404](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8404) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复设置 `replication.strictly-match-label` 为 `true` 导致 TiFlash 启动失败的问题 [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复在 `ANALYZE` 大规模分区表时获取 TSO 慢导致 `ANALYZE` 性能下降的问题 [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复了大规模集群下可能发生数据竞争的问题 [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复 TiDB 在判断查询是否为 Runaway Queries 时，只统计了 Coprocessor 侧的时间消耗但未统计 TiDB 侧的时间消耗，导致一些查询未被识别为 Runaway Queries 的问题 [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that redirection might panic during the startup of PD microservices [#8406](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8406) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that the `split-merge-interval` configuration item might not take effect when you modify its value repeatedly (such as changing it from `1s` to `1h` and back to `1s`) [#8404](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8404) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that setting `replication.strictly-match-label` to `true` causes TiFlash to fail to start [#8480](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8480) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that fetching TSO is slow when analyzing large partitioned tables, causing `ANALYZE` performance degradation [#8500](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8500) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the potential data races in large clusters [#8386](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8386) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that when determining whether queries are Runaway Queries, TiDB only counts time consumption spent on the Coprocessor side while missing time consumption spent on the TiDB side, resulting in some queries not being identified as Runaway Queries [#51325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51325) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

    TiCDC v7.6.0 introduced the replication of DDL statements with bi-directional replication configured. Previously, bi-directional replication of DDL statements was not supported by TiCDC, so users of TiCDC's bi-directional replication had to execute DDL statements on both TiDB clusters separately. With this feature, after assigning a `PRIMARY` BDR role to a cluster, TiCDC can replicate the DDL statements from that cluster to the `SECONDARY` cluster.
    
    In v8.3.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.2.0 to the current version (v8.3.0). If you are upgrading from v8.1.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> * To avoid incorrect use of commands, pd-ctl cancels the prefix matching mechanism. For example, `store remove-tombstone` cannot be called via `store remove` [#8413](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8413) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Author: ```suggestion
* To avoid incorrect use of commands, `pd-ctl` cancels the prefix matching mechanism. For example, `store remove-tombstone` cannot be called via `store remove` [#8413](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8413) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

|  BR  |  [`--allow-pitr-from-incremental`](/br/br-incremental-guide.md#limitations) | Newly added  |   Controls whether incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. The default value is `true`, which means that incremental backups are compatible with subsequent log backups. In the case of compatibility, the DDL to be played back is scrutinized before the incremental restore starts. |

### System tables

* The [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md#cluster_processlist) system tables add the `SESSION_ALIAS` field to show the number of rows currently affected by the DML statement [#46889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46889) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1903-->

> ### Other changes
> 
> ## Offline package changes
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Deprecated features **tw@hfxsd**

* The following features are deprecated starting from v8.3.0:

    * Starting from v7.5.0, [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md) replication is deprecated. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB Binlog is fully deprecated, with removal planned for a future release. For incremental data replication, use [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) instead. For point-in-time recovery (PITR), use [PITR](/br/br-pitr-guide.md).
    * Starting from v8.3.0, the [`tidb_enable_column_tracking`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_column_tracking-new-in-v540) system variable is deprecated. TiDB tracks predicate columns by default. For more information, see [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](#tidb_analyze_column_options-new-in-v830).

* The following features are planned for deprecation in future versions:

>     * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in- v800), which controls whether priority queues are enabled to optimize the ordering of tasks that automatically collect statistics. In future releases, the priority queue will be the only way to order tasks for automatically collecting statistics, so this system variable will be deprecated.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    * TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800), which controls whether priority queues are enabled to optimize the ordering of tasks that automatically collect statistics. In future releases, the priority queue will be the only way to order tasks for automatically collecting statistics, so this system variable will be deprecated.
```

    - Improve GC (Garbage Collection) efficiency by supporting concurrent range deletion. You can control the number of concurrent threads using [`tidb_gc_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_concurrency-new-in-v50) [#54570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54570) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1890-->
    - Improve the performance of bulk DML execution mode (`tidb_dml_type = "bulk"`) [#50215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50215) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - Improve the performance of schema information cache-related interface schema `SchemaByID` [#54074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54074) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
    - Improve the query performance for certain system tables when schema information caching is enabled [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Optimize error messages for conflicting keys when adding unique indexes [#53004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53004) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

+ TiKV

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 9 notes-->

> - Support modifying the `batch` configuration of the `evict-leader-scheduler` via `pd-ctl` to accelerate the leader eviction process [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
> - Add the `store_id` monitoring metric to the `Label distribution` pane in Grafana to display store IDs corresponding to different labels [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
> - Support fallback to the default resource group when the specified resource group does not exist [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
> - Add the `approximate_kv_size` field to the Region information output by the `region` command in `pd-ctl` [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
> - Optimize the message that returns when you call the API to delete the TTL configuration [#8450](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8450) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
> - Optimize the RU consumption behavior of large query read requests to reduce the impact on other requests [#8457](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8457) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
> - Optimize the error message that returns when you misconfigure PD microservices [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
> - Add the `--name` startup parameter to PD microservices to more accurately display the service name during deployment [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
> - Support dynamically adjusting `PatrolRegionScanLimit` based on the number of Regions to reduce Region scan time [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support modifying the `batch` configuration of the `evict-leader-scheduler` via `pd-ctl` to accelerate the leader eviction process [#8265](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8265) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Add the `store_id` monitoring metric to the **Cluster > Label distribution** panel in Grafana to display store IDs corresponding to different labels [#8337](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8337) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Support fallback to the default resource group when the specified resource group does not exist [#8388](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8388) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Add the `approximate_kv_size` field to the Region information output in the `pd-ctl region` command [#8412](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8412) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
    - Optimize the message that returns when you call the PD API to delete the TTL configuration [#8450](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8450) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Optimize the RU consumption behavior of large query read requests to reduce the impact on other requests [#8457](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8457) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Optimize the error message that returns when you misconfigure PD microservices [#52912](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52912) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Add the `--name` startup parameter to PD microservices to more accurately display the service name during deployment [#7995](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7995) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Support dynamically adjusting `PatrolRegionScanLimit` based on the number of Regions to reduce Region scan time [#7963](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7963) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@lilin90: the following 11 notes-->

    - Reset the parameters in the `Open` method of `PipelinedWindow` to fix the unexpected error that occurs when the `PipelinedWindow` is used as a child node of `Apply` due to the reuse of previous parameter values caused by repeated opening and closing operations [#53600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53600) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that the query might get stuck when terminated because the memory usage exceeds the limit set by `tidb_mem_quota_query` [#55042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55042) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that the disk spill for the HashAgg operator causes incorrect query results during parallel calculation [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - Fix the issue of wrong `JSON_TYPE` when casting `YEAR` to JSON format [#54027](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54027) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of wrong `JSON_TYPE` when casting `YEAR` to JSON format [#54494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54494) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```
